.TH NVCTL 1 "June 2026" "nvcontrol 0.8.10" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nvctl \- NVIDIA GPU control, diagnostics, and tuning for Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nvctl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nvctl
is the command-line interface for nvcontrol. It provides NVIDIA GPU information,
display controls, digital vibrance, fan control, overclocking, driver diagnostics,
CUDA/Ollama readiness checks, gaming workflows, and support bundle collection for
Linux NVIDIA systems.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.B --format <FORMAT>
Set global output format where supported.
.TP
.B --no-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show command help.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Print version.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B gpu
Show GPU information, capabilities, selection, monitoring, export, and stress workflows.
.TP
.B display
Manage display listing, vibrance, HDR, gamma, sharpening, color range, color space, and dithering.
.TP
.B vibrance
Set digital vibrance percentage from 0 to 200.
.TP
.B fan
Show fan status, set manual speed, reset automatic control, and manage fan curves.
.TP
.B overclock
Show and apply GPU and memory overclocking settings.
.TP
.B vrr
Manage Variable Refresh Rate and G-SYNC state.
.TP
.B monitor
Run real-time monitoring workflows.
.TP
.B tui
Launch the terminal user interface.
.TP
.B nvtop
Launch the htop-style GPU monitor.
.TP
.B gaming
Run gaming optimization, detection, and auto-profile workflows.
.TP
.B recording
Manage recording and streaming helpers.
.TP
.B container
Inspect and configure container GPU runtime support.
.TP
.B driver
Inspect driver state, 610+ runtime capabilities, DKMS/source state, release alignment, and support bundles.
.TP
.B power
Manage power limits, persistence mode, profiles, scheduling, and battery policies.
.TP
.B color
Manage color and vibrance helpers.
.TP
.B config
Manage nvcontrol configuration, profile capture, preview, diff, and apply workflows.
.TP
.B upscaling
Inspect AI upscaling and enhancement features.
.TP
.B cuda
Run CUDA, Ollama, and local AI/ML diagnostics.
.TP
.B dlss
Inspect DLSS and related feature support.
.TP
.B shaders
Manage shader cache workflows.
.TP
.B passthrough
Inspect GPU passthrough, VFIO, container, and VM readiness.
.TP
.B wayland
Inspect and optimize Wayland NVIDIA integration.
.TP
.B kde
Inspect and optimize KDE Plasma compositor settings.
.TP
.B hdr
Manage top-level HDR status and configuration.
.TP
.B power-profile
Manage AC/battery power profiles and activity policies.
.TP
.B arch
Inspect Arch Linux NVIDIA package and hook integration.
.TP
.B monitors
Manage multi-monitor layouts and VRR.
.TP
.B osd
Manage on-screen display helpers.
.TP
.B interactive
Launch interactive menu mode.
.TP
.B system
Show system information and platform detection.
.TP
.B doctor
Run one-shot diagnostics and optional support bundle generation.
.TP
.B setup
Run first-run setup checks and permission helpers.
.TP
.B completion
Generate shell completion scripts for bash, zsh, or fish.
.TP
.B version
Show detailed version information.
.TP
.B asus
Inspect ASUS ROG GPU features including Power Detector+.
.TP
.B companion
Run lightweight desktop companion actions.
.SH FAN EXAMPLES
.EX
nvctl fan info
nvctl fan set 0 75
nvctl fan auto
nvctl fan curve show
nvctl fan curve apply aggressive
nvctl fan curve apply balanced --fan-id 0
nvctl fan curve set "30:20,60:50,75:80,85:100"
.EE
.SH COMPLETION EXAMPLES
.EX
nvctl completion bash > completions/nvctl.bash
nvctl completion zsh > completions/_nvctl
nvctl completion fish > completions/nvctl.fish
.EE
.SH DRIVER AND CUDA EXAMPLES
.EX
nvctl driver diagnose-release
nvctl driver support-bundle --tarball --redact-paths
nvctl doctor --support
nvctl cuda doctor
nvctl cuda ollama
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/nvcontrol/config.toml
Main nvcontrol configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.config/nvcontrol/tui_state.toml
TUI session state.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nvidia-smi (1),
.BR vulkaninfo (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
